How-to guide migration (#165)
vegaprotocol/documentation: docs/howto/wallet.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Vega Wallet
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import GitPod from './_gitpod.mdx'

# How to use Vega Wallet APIs

## Introduction

To submit orders and other commands on Vega, users need to sign transactions with a private and public key pair. Users on Vega are pseudonymous and are referenced by their public keys. To assist with API integration there is a **REST API service** served from the Vega Wallet software providing signing and key management. 

The Vega Wallet software can store many wallets, and each wallet can store many key pairs. 

> Common actions for a wallet include; **logging in**, **retrieving a key pair** and **signing transactions** (such as an order submission). There are several useful how-to guides below that will help with management of keys and signing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Common actions for a wallet include; **connecting to a wallet**, **retrieving a public key** and **signing transactions** (such as an order submission). There are several how-to guides below that will help with management of keys and signing.
```

> ## Logging in to an existing wallet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connecting to an existing wallet
```

> Connect to a Vega Wallet server and log in. This can be either a hosted wallet, one you run yourself locally or stored in the cloud. The resulting `token` will be used to authenticate with the wallet for other actions (such as signing):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start a Vega Wallet server and connect to an existing wallet. This can be either a hosted wallet, or one you run yourself locally or stored in the cloud. The resulting `token` will be used to authenticate with the wallet for other actions (such as signing):
```

<GitPod />

<Tabs groupId="codesamples1">
<TabItem value="shell-rest" label="Shell (REST)">

```js reference
https://github.com/vegaprotocol/sample-api-scripts/blob/master/wallet/wallet.sh#L46-L50
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="python-rest" label="Python (REST)">

```js reference
https://github.com/vegaprotocol/sample-api-scripts/blob/master/wallet/wallet.py#L61-L65
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

If successful, the response will include:

| Field          |  Description  |
| :----------------- | :------------- |
| `token` | A JSON Web Token (JWT) used to provide authentication with methods on the wallet service (pass in headers as Bearer token). |

<details><summary>Example response</summary>

```js reference
https://github.com/vegaprotocol/sample-api-scripts/blob/master/wallet/response-examples.txt#L10-L13
```

</details>

:::info
For full example code, please visit the [repo on GitHub](https://github.com/vegaprotocol/sample-api-scripts/blob/master/wallet/).
:::

## Creating a new wallet

> Connect to a wallet server to create a new wallet. As mentioned earlier, this can be either a hosted wallet, one you run yourself locally or stored in the cloud. Just like logging in, once a new wallet has been created, a `token` will be returned and it will be used to authenticate with the wallet for other actions (such as signing):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose a wallet server to create a new wallet. As mentioned earlier, this can be either a hosted wallet, one you run yourself locally or stored in the cloud. Once a new wallet has been created, a `token` will be returned and it will be used to authenticate with the wallet for other actions (such as signing):
```
